ingress: Update Automated Deployment usage in Gateway API enhancement. (#1330)
openshift/enhancements: enhancements/ingress/gateway-api-with-cluster-ingress-operator.md

_To summarize, there are three methods a user could link Gateways:_
1. Use Automated Deployments
2. Use a Manual Deployment and manually create a new gateway service and deployment
3. Use a Manual Deployment, but link to the default `istio-ingressgateway` service

Openshift will not inhibit or alter the functionality of Automated Deployments, except
restricting creation of Gateways to specific users (_see the Automated Deployment section
in Risks and Mitigations_). The installation procedure (TBD) will allow users to
enable/disable automated deployments.

Nor will Openshift inhibit or alter the functionality of Manual Deployments. Users
are responsible for understanding and creating links to manual deployments when creating
Gateways.

The choice between these two features depends on the user's desired sharding scheme. Manual
linking, being more expressive, can establish a many-to-one Gateway-to-Gateway-Deployment
relationship, while Automated Deployments strictly establish a one-to-one
Gateway-to-Gateway-Deployment relationship. Arguably, Automated Deployments are more portable
among Gateway API implementations due to the fact Manually Deployments require linking an

> Istio-specific service address.

Reviewer: Can the end-user create a gateway using automated deployment and then create a second gateway configured to use the first gateway's service?

> among Gateway API implementations due to the fact Manually Deployments require linking an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
among Gateway API implementations due to the fact that Manual Deployments require linking an
```
Hm, is there a reason to capitalize "Automated Deployment" and "Manual Deployment"?

Author: I was thinking it was a proper noun, but on account istio [doesn't](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/gateway-api/#automated-deployment) in their docs, we probably shouldn't

**Resolution**: TBD for tech preview.

#### Should we enable automated deployments?

When the Ingress Operator installs OpenShift Service Mesh (OSSM) and creates a
ServiceMeshControlPlane (SMCP) CR, OSSM creates an Envoy proxy named
"istio-ingressgateway".  The cluster admin can then configure a Gateway CR that
uses this Envoy proxy.

Istio has a feature called [automated deployment](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/gateway-api/#automated-deployment) whereby it creates a new
Envoy proxy for a Gateway.

_Should we use automated deployments?_

To answer this question, we need to better understand the behavior and security
implications of automated deployments.

> **Resolution**: TBD.

Reviewer: I've been keeping open questions for context and adding the resolutions to record that we discussed them.  I recently explained my rationale for this approach and gave examples from other EPs here: https://github.com/openshift/enhancements/pull/1296#discussion_r1061556659

To answer this question, we need to better understand the behavior and security
implications of automated deployments.

**Resolution**: Yes. Automatic Deployments offer a more portable and streamline way to
create [ingress gateways](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/ingress-control/#configuring-ingress-using-a-gateway). However, in dev preview we will not provide a way to
enable/disable Automatic Deployments, it will always be enabled (see resolution to
_Do we need a new config object? How can the cluster admin configure OSSM?_ for more

> details.). In tech preview, we will expose a customization options for enabling/disabling
> Automatic Deployments.

Reviewer: Copy edit:
```suggestion
details.). In tech preview, we will expose a customization option for enabling/disabling
Automatic Deployments.
```
But really, is there a compelling reason why we would allow turning automated deployments off?  We can revisit the topic for tech preview if the answer isn't clear at this time.  
```suggestion
details.). In tech preview, we may expose a customization option for enabling/disabling
Automatic Deployments.
```

Author: Good point. The supporting points to allow for enabling/disabling are:
1. Just the fact that it's an configuration option in Istio and not hardcoded, so being a lazy engineer, they must have had a good reason users wanted to configure it.
2. Folks that don't want Automated Deployments may want to turn it off to avoid any accidentally creating a loadbalancer and service, which would cost extra money.
3. Since there are security implications to Automated Deployments, it may be advantageous for users to have an option to disable, given there's already been a [CVE](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2022-21701) with Automated Deployments. 

For now, I can leave the wording ambiguous unless we arrive at a concrete conclusion now.
